# Huawei Banned in the United States, while USA Allies Respond Differently

In this document, I will discuss Huawei's status as a national security threat. Particularly, I will look at the stance that the USA has taken, one that they are pushing to be accepted in their allied countries. I will then also examine the response of one of these allies, and the justifications behind it.

## Article 1

An article from the Bank Info Security New Site, titled [_FCC Upholds Ruling That Huawei Poses National Security Threat_](https://www.bankinfosecurity.com/fcc-upholds-ruling-that-huawei-poses-national-security-threat-a-15577), explains the decision made by the U.S. Federal Communications Commission to maintain the bans setforth upon Huawei and their related products and business. This was a confirmation on the initial order made back in July. With the USA holding a substantial amount of influence amongst key markets for Huawei, this doesn't bode well for Huawei's international efforts (of which I will speak about in article 2).

The justifications given by the FCC are largely related to the fact that the Chinese government could compel Huawei to provide information to government agencies, and as such, Huawei poses a considerable threat, should the data of American consumers become freely available to China. Any denial produced by Huawei has clearly had little effect in overturning this ruling. Interestingly enough, there are also protocols in which the USA could also compel companies such as Apple to provide data on users, which begs the question of whether these actions are at all appropriate. On the other hand, the FCC also found that there are weakpoints within Huawei infrastructure surrounding their networks and devices. With this in mind, perhaps limiting business until these issues can be resolved makes more sense, as an outright ban seems like a targeted, and harsh decision. Approaching this matter is of course difficult, given that there is neither proof of collusion between Huawei and the Chinese government, nor a clear guarantee that Huawei is indeed 100% secure with their data. The conservative approach by the US government indeed ensures that Huawei cannot pose a threat, should it indeed be one, however, it also removes a large company that may help the US economy in the long run, and perhaps provide jobs and other opportunities.

## Article 2

An article from the New York Times, titled [_Huawei Security 'Defects' Are Found by British Authorities_](https://www.nytimes.com/2019/03/28/technology/huawei-security-british-report.html), describes the security problems found in Huawei source code regarding data access, and explains the nation's response on this matter. Particularly, this article speaks of how Britain has responded keeping in mind the pressure from the USA to react similarly to them. Interestingly, even with the USA calling for a ban, Britain has opted for a more open approach. Huawei will not be banned, but rather it will be met with high levels of scrutiny, and see limited access in certain sectors (pertaining to 5G outreach).

After an in-depth investigation into the Huawei code, it was found that these defects were random and seemingly inadvertent - mistakes that could be fixed, albeit following substantial adjustments. More importantly, these are mistakes that largely do not enable backdoors or loopholes of which the government could take advantage of. The company has accepted these errors and claims they will be working on solving them. In these two articles, as well as what I have also found in others, it seems that Britain first sought to find as many details as possible before taking action in this Huawei data privacy matter. Although it is clear Huawei has issues surrounding their security, I believe the approach by Britain focuses on prioritizing security while also avoiding slashing a company for reasons that are of yet unproven.
